---
title: 'MIC has selected KTV Software Inc.''s project '
description: 'MIC has selected KTV Software Inc.''s project '
createdAt: '2025-09-07T12:10:22.377Z'
updatedAt: '2025-09-07T12:12:18.243Z'
publishedAt: '2025-09-07T12:12:00.478Z'
headerImage: ../images/IPDC_R7_ba049a7d37.JPG
localizations:
  - id: 466
    locale: ja-JP
  - id: 467
    locale: ko
  - id: 468
    locale: zh
  - id: 469
    locale: zh-Hant-TW
---
The Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications (MIC) has selected KTV Software Inc.'s project for its 2025 'Development and Demonstration Project for Countermeasures against False and Misleading Information on the Internet'(Note 1) .

This demonstration is positioned as a continuous effort following the same public offering project (Note 2) that was selected in 2024.

> [Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications website]
Results of the public solicitation for the 'Development and Demonstration Project for Countermeasures against False and Misleading Information on the Internet'.
> (Note 1) 2025
> https://www.soumu.go.jp/menu_news/s-news/01ryutsu02_02000444.html
> (Note 2) 2024
> https://www.soumu.go.jp/menu_news/s-news/01ryutsu02_02000415.html

This demonstration project combines IPDC technology for terrestrial digital broadcasting with blockchain technology to provide reliable information in environments with unstable communication.

Regarding the verification infrastructure to be established for this demonstration, third-party organisations will conduct investigations and evaluations from the perspectives of effectiveness and safety, with a view to societal implementation. This process will entail identifying potential challenges and devising countermeasures.

Furthermore, efforts will continue to promote societal understanding of, and adoption of, this technology by presenting and verifying practical use cases involving IPDC and blockchain.

## About IPDC（IP DataCast）
This technology uses the terrestrial digital broadcasting system to transmit various types of digital data. As it delivers information independently of the internet, it enables stable, wide-area information distribution, even when communication infrastructure is unstable during disasters.
Although it uses terrestrial digital broadcasting, unlike standard television reception, dedicated receiving equipment is required.

## Announcement from KTV Software Inc.
[令和7年度 総務省「インターネット上の偽・誤情報等への対策技術の開発・実証事業」に採択されました（関西テレビソフトウェア株式会社）](https://www.ktvs.co.jp/news/250901.html)
